Claims Management
-------------------

This document enumerates the relation between various modules in the Claims process, in order to -
1. Reduce or eliminate fraud by relying on historical trends (Fraud Management)
2. Hasten the process of claims approval while ensuring #1 (Adjudication Recommender)
3. Associate a trust score to aid in fraud detection and auditing (Trust Score Management) - During claims processing

Let us look at each of them in detail.

Claims Trust Score Management Engine
--------------------------------------
A trust score is the probability that a given claim is not a fraud. 
A mathematical predictor model will be used in order to arrive at a trust score for any claim that is under processing. 
Trust score for a claim is computed on both the entities as well as past anonymised trends -

Entities (Health Care Provider and Beneficiary) Related Historic Trends -
1. Percentage of claims filed by the entities (health care provider, Doctor, or the beneficiary) Accepted with high confidence (Adjudication engine score is >80%)
2. Percentage of claims filed by the entities (health care provider, Doctor, or the beneficiary) Not Accepted with high confidence (<30% score by Adjucation engine)
3. Percentage of claims filed by the entities (health care provider, Doctor, or the beneficiary) audited and found fradulent (in retrospect or during claims filing process)
4. Average billed amount / Billed amount for this procedure
5. Number of patients treated (if health care provider) on this day/week/month
6. Reporting Lags
7. Treatment Characteristics and Procedures
8. Years of Experience of Doctor
9. Number of Prior Incidents from Doctor 
10. Number of Unauthorized claims from the entities

General Historic Trends (coming from Fraud Management Engine) -
1. Average number of claims filed and accepted with high confidence
2. Average number of claims filed and not accepted with high confidence
3. Average number of claims audited and found fraudulent
4. Average Billed amount for this procedure
5. Average number of patients treated per day/week/month
6. Average Reporting Lags
7. Average Treatment Characteristics and Procedures
8. Average Years of Experience of Doctor
9. Average Number of Prior Incidents from Doctor 
10. Average Number of Unauthorized claims from the entities


Adjudication Recommender System (ARS)
--------------------------------------
The Adjudication engine acts as a recommender system for Insurers. It will assist the ICs and TPAs to make faster and more data-driven decisions when a new claim is presented.

The adjudication engine will do the following -
1. Parse the Policy DB and apply it on the claim presented. 
   If not found in order, the claim is strongly recommended to be rejected.

2. Based on the Claims Trust Score Engine, the Adjudication Engine will either -
   a. Strongly recommend Accepting the claim (>80% confidence) citing relevant parameters from Claim Trust Score Engine
   b. Strongly recommend Rejecting the claim (<30% confidence) citing relevant parameters from Claim Trust Score Engine
   c. Recommend TPA/IC intervention (30-80% confidence levels)

A TPA sign off is still required in order to set the status of the claims to accepted or rejected. The claims trust score engine is expected to learn from TPA action on the claim for future.


Fraud Management System (FMS)
-------------------------
Fraud Management System is a generic system which will collect anonymised claims data in order to identify current trends and be able to suggest to the Trust Score Engine with higher accuracy.

Some examples of data analysed by Fraud Management System are (courtesy Trendwise Analytics) -

1. Doctors, who treated whopping, say 50+ patients in a day. 
2. Providers administering far higher rates of tests than others. 
3. Providers costing far more, per patient basis, than others. 
4. Providers with high ratio of distance patients. 
5. Providers prescribing certain drugs at higher rate than others. 
6. Distance between claimant’s home address and medical provider 
7. Multiple medical opinions/providers 
8. Changing providers for the same treatment (possibly correlated with other claim activity) 
9. High number of treatments for type of injury 
10. Abnormally long treatment time off for the type of injury 
11. Accident severity does not correlate with severity of injury 
12. Providers billing for services not provided. 
13. Providers administering (more) tests and treatments or providing equipments that are not medically necessary. 
14. Providers administering more expensive tests and equipments (up-coding). 
15. Providers multiple-billing for services rendered. 
16. Providers unbundling or billing separately for laboratory tests performed together to get higher reimbursements. 
17. Providers charging more than peers for the same services. 
18. Providers conducting medically unrelated procedures and services. 
19. Policy holders traveling long distance for treatment which may be available nearby. (Possibly scams by bogus providers.) 
20. Policy holders letting others use their healthcare cards. 

This analysis may be applied across Claims, Entities, Procedures, and at geographical units like District, City, State, Country, etc.

This module will also enable data analytics to be run on top of the UHC system in order for various government agencies, insurers and hospitals to monitor the general health of the public.

Incentive to Report Fraud -
-----------------------------
In order to assist fraud detection, it is suggested that beneficiaries be given incentives to report fraudulent claims filing. This necessrily means the identity of the reporter should be confidential. This will boost the Fraud management system, and also bring in resistance toengaging in unlawful practises.

Score Management - Claim Score (with Entity Score computed at runtime)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
There is an implicit entity score (provider score and beneficiary score). These are computed at run time to aid computing the claim score. Why are these runtime? A lot of these parameters are based on current trends as well (number of patients treated on this day/week/month, reporting Lags,Treatment Characteristics and Procedures, etc and for beneficiary it might be the number of times claims have been filed in the past week/month/year). Therefore, these scores are moving, and not static. Hence, they will be computed at runtime to arrive at a score for the claim.


Tying up Claims Management - How Blocks Interact
-------------------------------------------------
1. New claim processing requested from Adjudication Engine.

2. Adjudication Recommender System (ARS) requests Policy Details from Policy DB

3. Policy DB returns details of Policy.

4. If claim is found to not conform to policy, it is rejected with appropriate Reject Code, and exits

5. Adjudication Engine requests Trust Management system (TMS) for a Claim Trust Score.

6. TMS requests provider score, beneficiary score, and past trends for this procedure from Fraud Management System (FMS).

7. FMS reverts with historic trends for procedure as well as historic trends on beneficiary and provider.

8. TMS also aggregates current data on beneficiary and provider from the Claims DB

9. TMS arrives at a beneficiary score, provider score, and procedure score from data obtained in #7 and #8

10. TMS aggregates all scores generated in #9 and arrives at a Claim Score.

11. TMS sends a Claim Score to the Adjudication Engine

12. ARS recommends acceptance (claim score > 80%) , rejection (claim score < 30%) or TPA intervention (otherwise).
                                                  
                                                 
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  Claims DB
                                                      |
                                                      |
                                           c. Entities Current Trends
                                                      |
                                                     \|/
                    b. General Historic Trends                        d. Compute Claim Score
Fraud Management System    ------------->      Trust Management System  ---------- >   Adjudication Engine  -----> Recommend 
                     of Entities and Procedure                                                                       Action
                                                                                            /|\
                                                                                             |
                                                                                      a. Policy Details
                                                                                             |
                                                                                             |
                                                                                       Policy Engine DB
                                                
                                                
                                                

References -
-------------
1. Healthcare Fraud Management using BigData - Whitepaper by Trendwise Analytics
2. 10 popular health care provider fraud schemes - Fraud Magazine
